Sprint 8 Project - hm08-qa-us

Project Overview -
This project focuses on testing various features of the Urban Routes web user interface, including:

Setting the address 
Selecting the Supportive plan
Filling in the phone number
Adding a credit card
Writing a message for the driver
Ordering a blanket and handkerchiefs
Ordering 2 ice creams
Displaying the car search modal
Waiting for the driver information to appear
Tests have been developed using Node.js and WebDriverIO. Follow these instructions to execute the tests:

Open Terminal and navigate to the project directory.

Initialize npm by running:

bash
Copy code
npm init --yes
Set Up the Urban Routes Testing Environment:

Start the Urban Routes testing environment.
Copy the URL and update the baseUrl variable in wdio.conf.js.
Run the Tests using:

bash
Copy code
npm run wdio
Known Issues:

If you encounter an error related to chromedriver, you can perform tests with Firefox by following these steps:

Open Terminal and navigate to the root directory of the project.

Install the Latest Version of WebdriverIO:
Run:

bash
Copy code
npm init wdio@latest
This will install the latest version of WebDriverIO (10.7.0 as of July 23, 2024).

Respond to Terminal Prompts as Follows:

Project Detection: A project named "hm08-qa-us" was detected at "YOUR_PATH\hm08-qa-us", correct? - Yes 

Testing Type: What type of testing would you like to do? - E2E Testing - of Web or Mobile Applications 

Automation Backend: Where is your automation backend located? - On my local machine 

Environment: Which environment would you like to automate? (Use arrow keys) - Web - web applications in the browser 

Browser: With which browser should we start? - Firefox 

Framework: Which framework do you want to use? - Mocha (https://mochajs.org/) 

Compiler: Do you want to use a compiler? - No!

Autogenerated Test Files: Do you want WebDriverIO to autogenerate some test files? - No

Reporter: Which reporter do you want to use? - spec

Plugins: Do you want to add a plugin to your test setup? - wait-for: utilities that provide functionalities to wait for certain conditions until a defined task is complete.

Visual Testing: Would you like to include Visual Testing in your setup? - No

Services: Do you want to add a service to your test setup? - Toggle 'firefox-profile' and 'intercept' with the space button, then press enter.

npm Install: Do you want me to run npm install? - Yes

Update wdio.conf.js:

Open wdio.conf.js in the root directory.
Add the following line to specs:
javascript
Copy code
specs: [
    './test/specs/**/*.js'
],
Update the baseUrl with your testing environment URL:
javascript
Copy code
baseUrl: 'YOUR_TESTING_ENVIRONMENT_URL',
Add intercept to services:
javascript
Copy code
services: ['firefox-profile', 'intercept'],
Add maxInstances and acceptInsecureCerts to capabilities:
javascript
Copy code
capabilities: [{
    maxInstances: 5,
    browserName: 'firefox',
    acceptInsecureCerts: true,
}],
Save the wdio.conf.js File.

Common Errors and Fixes:

Headless Mode Errors:
If you see errors like:

vbnet

Copy code

WARN geckodriver: Error: no DISPLAY environment variable specified

[0-0] ERROR webdriver: Request failed with status 500 due to unknown error: Process unexpectedly closed with status 1

Ensure that headless mode is specified in wdio.conf.js:

For Firefox:

javascript
Copy code
capabilities: [{
    maxInstances: 5,
    browserName: 'firefox',
    acceptInsecureCerts: true,
    'moz:firefoxOptions': {
        args: ['-headless']
    }
}],
For Chrome:

javascript
Copy code
capabilities: [{
    maxInstances: 5,
    browserName: 'chrome',
    acceptInsecureCerts: true,
    'goog:chromeOptions': {
        args: ['headless', 'disable-gpu']
    }
}],
Mixed Spaces and Tabs:
To resolve issues with mixed spaces and tabs, ensure that all lines in your project files use tabs, not spaces.
